---
title: Salsa
author: jackie
type: post
date: 2008-08-13T01:57:50+00:00
url: /2008/08/12/33/salsa
categories:
  - Appetizer
tags:
  - Diabetic Friendly
  - Jackie
  - Low Fat
  - Mexican

---
With salsa, there&#8217;s a bunch of different things you can do with it. Everyone has their own recipe and way they make it, but here&#8217;s mine. Before I found the guacamole recipe, Jesse was having me make this as often as I could since it is a pretty healthy snack. I continually experiment with this recipe and it&#8217;s really easy to do. All of the ingredients are pretty much to taste, so if you want more onions, you can add more if you want. The measurements I have below are ones I&#8217;ve found that work well, but I don&#8217;t think I&#8217;ve measured the onions in a long time.

The recipe is pretty basic, but if you&#8217;re looking to add some color to it, try adding a bunch of red, yellow, and green peppers. They really add to the color and texture of the salsa and I&#8217;ve yet to hear any complaints when I do add them. You can also make this as spicy as you want. My mother&#8217;s husband really likes spicy hot foods, so when I made this for them awhile ago, I added as many hot peppers I could get my hands on as well as Habenero sauce and it really came out spicy hot.

As for the directions, I typically use a blender to make it since it&#8217;s an easy and effective way to do it. However, this method does liquefy it a little more, so if you&#8217;re looking for a chunkier salsa, try using a food processor.

The salsa can be served right away after you make it; however, it&#8217;s better when you make it a few hours before you need it and stick it in the refrigerator for a time. The longer it sets in the fridge, the thicker it will be come and the spices have more time to blend together.

**Ingredients:**  
1 large can of tomatoes (whole, stewed, or diced)  
1/4 chopped onions (or to taste)  
1 chopped jalapeno pepper  
Salt  
Pepper  
1/2 tsp ground cumin  
1/t tsp garlic powder  
1/2 tsp onion powder  
1 clove garlic  
cilantro

**Directions:**

  1. Add peppers, 1/2 of onions, and juice from tomatoes in a blender. Blend for about a minute or until onions and peppers are small enough or pureed. Pour into mixing bowl.
  2. Add tomoatoes, salt, pepper, cumin, onion powder, garlic powder, rest of the onions, and cilantro in a blender. Pulse blend 3 or 4 times, just enough to break up the tomatoes. Add to pepper mixture. Stir.