---
title: Mint Brownies
author: jackie
type: post
date: 2009-02-23T03:39:29+00:00
url: /2009/02/22/521/521
categories:
  - Brownies

---
Jeff P. actually gave me this recipe when he found out that I liked baking and Jesse had a thing for brownies. I want to say this is his mother&#8217;s recipe.  I&#8217;ve had it for awhile, but I really need to try it since I love anything with mint.

**Ingredients:**  
1/2 cup butter or margarine, softened  
1 cup sugar  
1 tsp vanilla  
2 eggs  
2 squares (2 oz) unsweetened chocolate, melted  
1/2 cup flour

_Chocolate Glaze_  
2 tbsp butter or margarine  
Chocolate chips

_Mint Frosting_  
1 cup confectioners’ sugar  
2 tbsp softened butter  
1 tbsp milk  
½ tsp peppermint extract  
Green food coloring

**Directions:**

  1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
  2. In a large bowl of mixer beat butter, sugar, vanilla, eggs and chocolate until well blended. Stir in flour.
  3. Spread in greased 8-inch square baking pan. Bake for 25 minutes (or until top is firm).
  4. Cool, then spread with Mint Frosting. Let stand until set (may refrigerate). Drizzle with Chocolate Glaze. Chill until firm.
  5. _Mint Frosting_: Beat until smooth 1-cup confectioners’ sugar, 2 tablespoons softened butter or margarine, 1-tablespoon milk, ½ teaspoon peppermint extract, and a dash of green food coloring.
  6.  _Chocolate Glaze_: In small saucepan over low heat melt 2 tablespoons butter or margarine. Add tablespoons of chocolate chips and stir to melt and smooth. (I have also melted the butter in the microwave and then added the chocolate and stirred). If the chocolate is too thick, add a little more butter.