---
title: Taco Ring
author: jackie
type: post
date: 2009-01-11T01:02:32+00:00
url: /2009/01/10/74/taco-ring
categories:
  - Meat
tags:
  - Mexican

---
3/4 lb lean ground beef  
1 package taco seasoning mix  
1 cup shredded cheddar cheese  
2 tablespoons water  
2 packages (8 oz each) refrigerated crescent rolls  
1 medium green bell pepper  
1 cup salsa  
3 cups shredded lettuce  
1 medium tomato  
1/4 cup onion (chopped)  
1/2 cup pitted ripe olives  
sour cream (optional)

  1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Cook ground beef in Large Skillet over medium heat 7-9 minutes or until beef is no longer pink; drain. Remove pan from heat. Stir in taco seasoning mix, cheese, and water.
  2. Unroll crescent dough; separate into triangles. Arrange triangles in a circle on Classic Round Stone with wide ends overlapping in the center and points toward outside. (There should be a 5-inch diameter opening in the center) Using Medium Scoop, scoop meat mixture evenly onto widest end of each triangle. Bring points of triangles up over filling and tuck under wide ends of dough at center of ring. (Filling will not be completely covered.) Bake 20-25 minutes or until golden brown.
  3. Using V-Shaped Cutter, cut off top of bell pepper. Discard top, membranes and seeds. Fill pepper with Salsa. Shred lettuce and chop tomato using Utility Knife. Chop onion using Food Chopper. Slice olives using Egg Slicer Plus. Place bell pepper in center of ring; arrange lettuce, tomato, onion, and olives around pepper. Using Easy Accent Decorator, garnish with sour cream, if desired. To serve, cut with Slice &#8216;n Serve.

**Yield:** 8 Servings