---
title: Garden Fresh Italian Dipping Oil
author: jackie
type: post
date: 2010-08-15T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=910
categories:
  - Appetizer

---
With the garden in full bloom, Jesse had the idea to use some of the fresh herbs to make his own Italian dipping oil.  It&#8217;s still in the experimental stage, so any suggestions/advice are welcome, but so far it&#8217;s smelling fairly good.  Jesse has included his notes at the bottom.

**Ingredients**  
1/4 tsp dried rosemary (fresh if you have it)  
2 (2in) sprigs of fresh oregano with stems  
5 fresh basil leaves  
2 fresh sage leaves  
1 garlic clove  
16 oz olive oil  
1/2 tsp whole peppercorns  
1 pretty 16oz oil bottle with spout  
1 loaf of Italian bread

**Directions:**

  1. Crush garlic clove with garlic press, drop into bottom of 16oz oil bottle
  2. Fill bottle halfway with oil
  3. Stack and slice basil leaves into 1/8th inch thick strips, add to bottle
  4. Slice one sage leave into 1/8th inch thick strips, add to bottle
  5. Strip leaves from one of the oregano sprigs, add to bottle
  6. Add dried rosemary to bottle
  7. Crush the peppercorn (rolling pin, meat tenderizer, elephant with tap shoes, whatever) and add to bottle.
  8. Add remaining oregano sprig and whole sage leaf to bottle; swirl them as you put them in to get the dry ingredients out of the neck of the bottle.
  9. Fill remainder of the bottle with oil
 10. Cap bottle with thumb (the pouring stopper won&#8217;t work) and turn the bottle upside down a few times to stir ingredients.

A few notes from the chef:

  * Dried rosemary will float to the top. Hopefully fresh won&#8217;t and the dry will get waterlogged and sink down with everything else.
  * Everything will quickly settle towards the bottom, so don&#8217;t be surprised.
  * Cap with thumb and turn bottle a few times to stir ingredients before using.
  * Peppercorn should be adjusted to taste; too much and it may be too strong for some.
  * Getting the ingredients into the bottle can be a challenge. For the garlic clove, I quartered it and slowly crushed each, scraping it into the bottle as I went. Rosemary had to be poured in slowly. Crushed peppercorn was difficult to get off the cutting board (and it stuck to the scraper).

I&#8217;m currently debating on whether or not to eventually strain the oil after a few days and add dried ingredients to lengthen shelf life. Will try this tonight and give feedback on how it tastes.
