---
title: Rum Balls
author: jackie
type: post
date: 2010-04-08T16:34:02+00:00
url: /2010/04/08/845/rum-balls
categories:
  - 'Cookies &amp; Fudge'

---
I love this recipe of my grandmother&#8217;s. It&#8217;s the one holiday treat the I (and the rest of my family) look forward to every year

Since we&#8217;re not fans of keeping alcohol in the house, I did attempt to make these with rum extract, but I&#8217;ll be honest, it doesn&#8217;t come as good.  For someone who grew up with these, I could tell the difference in the rum.

**Ingredients:**  
4 cups crushed vanilla wafer cookies (a 12oz box)  
1 cup chopped walnuts  
1 (3.5oz) pkg of coconut  
Powdered sugar  
1 (14oz) can sweetened condensed milk  
1/4 cup rum

**Directions:**  
In large bowl, mix crumbs, nuts and coconut. Add milk and rum, mix well. Refrigerate 4 hours or overnight. Dip palms of hands in sugar. Shape dough by teaspoon into 1&#8243; balls, roll in powdered sugar (rechill if mixture becomes to soft). Cover and store in refrigerator. If desired, re roll in powdered sugar before serving.

**Tip:** The flavor of these cookies improves after 24 hours. They may be made ahead and stored in refrigerator or freezer for several weeks

**Rum Conversion**  
_Dark Rum Liquor Conversion_: For every tablespoon of dark rum called for in a recipe, you should use 2 tablespoons of rum extract. If the recipe calls for ½ cup of dark rum, it probably makes sense to go out and buy a bottle of rum, since the extra ½ cup of liquid would sink many recipes.  
_  
Light Rum Liquor Conversion_: For every 5 tablespoons of light rum called for in a recipe, you should use 1 tablespoon of rum extract. If the recipe calls for ½ cup of light rum, you would use 1 tablespoon and 2 teaspoons rum extract for the equivalent flavor (and depending on the recipe, you would probably need to add 3/8 cup of water to keep the ratio of liquid ingredients right).  
&#8212;Source: [Savory Spice Shop][1]

 [1]: http://www.savoryspiceshop.com/extracts/rumext.html