---
title: Chocolate Peanut Butter Balls (aka Buckeyes)
author: jackie
type: post
date: 2010-12-15T04:48:28+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=984
categories:
  - 'Cookies &amp; Fudge'

---
Growing up, I loved my grandmother&#8217;s chocolate peanut butter ball recipe and it wasn&#8217;t until recently that I heard them to referred to as Buckeyes.  Well, when I had problems using my [grandmother&#8217;s recipe][1] (measuring peanut butter in pounds?), I went looking for a Buckeye recipe and found this one at [Jif][2].  It was so close to my grandmother&#8217;s that I used that one instead.  I have to say, this recipe does make some go dough.

When mixing together the dough, you have to be careful with the powdered sugar.  The recipe says to start out with 2 cups of powdered sugar and then add as needed; after I mixed in the two cups, the dough looked a bit sticky, so I added a 1/2 cup of sugar and boy did it make a difference.  The additional powdered sugar made the dough really crumbly.  Well, not too crumbly, but crumbly enough that I was concerned I wouldn&#8217;t be make balls with it.  After a couple of attempts, and I did succeed in making balls, I decided that I had to make it not so crumbly.  Easy solution &#8211; add more peanut butter.  Not too much, just a spatula full, but it was enough to make the dough a lot smoother and still firm enough to make some pretty balls.

**Ingredients:**  
1-1/2 cups creamy peanut butter  
1/2 cup butter  
1 tsp vanilla extract  
1/2 tsp salt  
2 to 3 cups powdered sugar  
1 (12 oz.) pkg (2 cups) semi-sweet chocolate chips  
2 tbsp shortening

**Directions:**

  1. COMBINE peanut butter, butter, vanilla and salt in large bowl. Beat with an electric mixer on LOW until blended. Add 2 cups powdered sugar, beating until blended. Beat in additional powdered sugar until mixture, when shaped into a ball, will stay on a toothpick. Shape into 1-inch balls. Refrigerate.
  2. PLACE chocolate chips and shortening in microwave-safe bowl. Microwave on MEDIUM for 30 seconds. Stir. Repeat until mixture is smooth. Reheat as needed while coating peanut butter balls.
  3. INSERT toothpick in peanut butter ball. Dip 3/4 of ball into chocolate, leaving top uncovered to resemble a buckeye. Remove excess. Place on wax paper-lined tray. Remove toothpick. Smooth over holes. Refrigerate until firm.

 [1]: /2009/02/24/575/peanut-butter-balls
 [2]: http://www.jif.com/Recipes/Details/392