---
title: Baked Oatmeal
author: jackie
type: post
date: 2012-09-24T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=1116
categories:
  - Uncategorized

---
Ingredients

2 cups old fashioned rolled oats  
1/3 cup light brown sugar  
1 teaspoon baking powder  
1 tablespoon grated orange zest  
1 teaspoon Chinese five spice  
1/2 teaspoon salt  
1/2 cup walnut pieces, chopped  
1 cup sliced strawberries  
1/3 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips  
2 cups milk  
1 large egg  
3 tablespoons butter, melted  
2 teaspoons vanilla extract  
1 ripe banana, peeled, 1/2-inch slices

Method

Preheat oven to 375°F and generously spray the inside of a 10-1/2 by 7 inch baking dish with cooking spray and place on a baking sheet.  
In a large bowl, mix together the oats, sugar, baking powder, orange zest, Chinese five spice, salt, half the walnuts, half the strawberries and half the chocolate. (Save the other half of strawberries, walnuts and chocolate for the top of the oatmeal).  
In another large bowl, whisk together the milk, egg, butter and vanilla extract.  
Add the oat mixture to prepared baking dish. Arrange the remaining strawberries, walnuts and chocolate on top. Add the banana slices to the top then pour the milk mixture over everything. Gently shimmy/shake the baking dish to help the milk mixture go throughout the oats.  
Bake 35 to 40 minutes or until the top is nicely golden brown and the milk mixture has set. For an extra tasty top, sprinkle a tablespoon or so of extra brown sugar on top then place back in the oven under the broiler and broil for 20-30 seconds. Serve warm with an extra sprinkle of sugar or drizzle of maple syrup.
