---
title: Veggie Surprise Meatloaf
author: jackie
type: post
date: 2012-01-09T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=1105
categories:
  - Meat
tags:
  - Wheat-Free

---
Lately, I&#8217;ve been finding it necessary to hide vegetables in foods I know the kids love. There are times it works and some times it fails miserably.  When it does work, I want to make sure I remember it and this is one of those times.  I&#8217;ve found it&#8217;s really easy to hide squash (butternut, zucchini, yellow, etc) and sweet potatoes as long as you don&#8217;t make it overpowering.  I made that mistake with my first attempt at a veggie surprise meatloaf, but I think I figured it out this time.

Don&#8217;t overboard the squash.  This can make it really soggy and then no one eats it.  When I was mixing the steamed squash in, I&#8217;m thinking I won&#8217;t have that problem this time.  It really didn&#8217;t change the color of the meat too much, and the ketchup was able to shine through, so I&#8217;m hoping I&#8217;m in the clear.  One thing you want to make sure of, dice the onions and green pepper (and any other veggies you want to add).  If they are too big, it&#8217;ll make it harder for the meat to stick together.  You&#8217;ll end up with a crumbly loaf (regardless of how moist or dry) and that never ends well.  Plus, if they are too big, the kids tend to complain.  \*grin\*

**Ingredients:**  
1-1/2 lb Hamburger  
1/2 cup ketchup  
1/4 cup onions  
1/2 cup steamed butternut squash, smashed  
1/4 cup green pepper  
3 eggs  
salt to taste  
pepper to taste  
about 2 cups instant oats

**Directions:**

  1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
<li type="_moz">
  Mix together the eggs, spices, ketchup and squash until thoroughly blended.  Add remaining veggies and meat, again until well blended. Add enough oatmeal to thickness desired.
</li>
  2. Spray an 8&#215;8 pan with olive oil and spoon mixture into, smoothing it out.  Bake for 45 minutes or until meatloaf comes away from pan.
