---
title: Blackberry Sauce
author: jackie
type: post
date: 2012-03-22T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=1140
categories:
  - Ice Cream
  - Sauce

---
I came home with a bunch of blackberries tonight, and while we normally love them, they were just a bit too tart for us.  As not to waste them, I figured we would do dessert tonight since we also happen to have a bunch of ice cream in the freezer, so I went looking for a blackberry sauce. I didn&#8217;t think it would be too hard to do, or that I would need that many ingredients, and I was right.  [Smitten Kitchen][1] had exactly what I was looking for with their [Lime Yogurt Cake with Blackberry Sauce][2] recipe.

While I kept the ingredients the same (although the lime juice could probably be omitted, but as this is my first time making it, I haven&#8217;t yet), I did prepare it a little different.  I really dislike pouring liquefied fruit _through a fine mesh strainer to remove the seeds_; so instead, I decided to do a slight reduction on the sauce.  I heated the mixture to a boil and then let it simmered for a bit. This reduced a lot of water from the sauce and thickened it up pretty nicely.  Perfect for ice cream, right?

I am using fresh blackberries for this experiment, but according to [Smitten Kitchen][1], frozen should work just as well, you just have to reduce the water.  Whether you want to reduce it by half or omit it completely, I would guess that&#8217;s up to you.  They suggest using 1/8 cup of water to start.

Overall consensus:  Ian says it could use more sugar (like a 5yo wouldn&#8217;t say that); Jesse says it doesn&#8217;t need the lime

**Ingredients:**  
16 ounces fresh blackberries (frozen should work as well, but you should start with half the water)  
1/4 cup water  
3 tablespoons sugar  
1 tablespoon fresh lime juice

**Directions:**

  1. Combine blackberries, water, sugar and lime juice in blender or food processor. Purée until smooth.
  2. Pour mixture into a pan and bring to a boil.  Reduce heat and simmer 15 minutes.  Remove from heat and cover.  Cool 20-30 minutes.
  3. Serve over ice cream, cake, pie, whatever you would like.

 [1]: http://smittenkitchen.com
 [2]: http://smittenkitchen.com/2010/04/lime-yogurt-cake-with-blackberry-sauce/
